well a truck carrying fuel has entered
Gaza for the first time since the start
of this war the UN has accused Israel of
using fuel as a weapon of War during
this whole conflict after more than a
month Israel has allowed a single truck
carrying about 24,000 liters of diesel
to enter the Gaza Strip through the
Raffa Crossing but that fuel is only
meant for UN trucks to distribute Aid
it's not for use in hospitals or for
other critical civilian needs the un's
refugee agency says it needs 60,000 lers
every day for its basic humanitarian
work the head of unra has warned about
70% of the territories people will soon
have no clean water or fuel as
generators desalination plants and
pumping stations all stop working this
crisis as we know has hit hospitals the
hardest the largest alifa isn't getting
the 10,000 lers of fuel a day that it
needs and has been forced to suspend
servicers and telecommunications
companies are expected to run out of
fuel on Thursday leading to network
breakdowns well let's bring in Juliet
tumor she is the director of
communications for unra the UN Palestine
refugees agency she joins us now from
Aman in Jordan Juliet we've been
covering this fuel crisis for weeks I
know unra has been leading the charge
here can you give us a sense of the
scale here that the numbers really don't
quite do it
justice I mean yes um there are many
numbers I think the number that should
stay with all of us is that More than
70% of the population in Gaza were
forced to flee their homes 70% and as a
result now we have hundreds of thousands
of people who have sought refuge in our
shelters our shelters are overcrowded we
do not have the enough supplies or the
capacity to deliver assistance to that
huge of a number and we also do not have
fuel
Juliet so with no access though this
fuel is not meant for your operations
it's not meant for hospitals what
difference will this fuel actually
make good question not much that fuel
was conditioned the use of that fuel was
conditioned by the Israeli
authorities um a very small delivery of
fuel I I don't remember the figure that
you use but it's the equivalent of of
half a truck right I mean it's not much
we can use that fuel for two days to go
to the borders pick up the supplies put
them in a warehouse we're not even able
to distribute those supplies or use the
fuel for medical facilities or other um
part of our humanitarian operation is
there The Hope Juliet that even with
this small amount that's gone in that
this might be the beginning of more I
know obviously Israel had had a complete
opposition to any fuel at all now that
they're allowing some in could there be
room for negotiation for more given that
the fact that this will will basically
make no difference at all as you as you
just
described look uh every um gesture is is
is welcome but is it enough it's by far
not enough it's like the conversation
you and I had when those trucks of
supplies started coming into the Gaza
Strip we call them A Drop in the Ocean
so no it's not enough it's not enough
and and fuel should not be used as a
weapon of war and organizations like the
organization where I work like and
should not be begging for fuel because
we need it for our humanitarian
operation it's very very simple there
are international humanitarian law
implications of this too right
Juliet Sorry come again there are
international humanitarian law
implications of restricting
fuel it is being used as a weapon of War
just like water has been just like food
has been just like this whole Aid
operation that we've been managing at
Andre is being trapped is being
strangled due to all these uh
restrictions including those trucks that
have been coming in very very good that
supplies have finally started going into
the G strip after two weeks of very
tight Siege but they're not enough the
volume is not enough they don't have
fuel on them it's a cumbersome operation
shouldn't be the case it's humanitarian
Aid that should flow very easily and
smoothly to the communities in need of
course well we understand too that
telecommunications which also requires
fuel is now on the verge of collapse how
long do we
have anytime I mean in some parts of
Gaza it already collapsed you see it's
it's not very scientific you can't say
oh well all across Gaza today there will
not be telecoms it it doesn't go like
that or oh the all the bakeries will
shut down it's not very scientific it
depends on how much St storage of fuel
you had in a plate right so it's not
going to be like a total shutdown and
and this is why you know those very
specific questions cannot be answered
right what we do know is that fuel
shipments have not come into Gaza since
the 7th of October yesterday we had a
very very small shipment of fuel that is
absolutely tiny that was very
conditional this is not what we need to
run a massive humanitarian operation the
size of the one that and runs in Gaza
Julia tum they un's head of
communication speaking to us from Aman
and Jordan thank you very much Juliet we
really wish you all the best with your
work you and your staff thank you